---
published: true
layout: talkitover
category: talkitover
series-id: struggles
title: Talk It Over Week 3
---

<p class="lead">This week's Talk It Over has a special video to accompany your study. <a href="javascript:void(0);" data-video-player="i98j5vdq8g" class="action" onclick="ga('send', 'event', 'TIO', 'Click', 'Video');">Watch the Video <i class="icon icon-arrow"></i></a></p>

## Authenticity
<p class="lead">Start by reviewing what stuck out to you from the message.</p>

How is technology changing relationships?

* People are starting to fear and avoid **unfiltered** communication.

[Exodus 34:29-35](https://www.bible.com/bible/111/Exo.34.29-35.niv) 

The problem of veiled living:

[2 Corinthians 3:13-18](https://www.bible.com/bible/111/2co.3.13-18.niv)

_"You don’t have to show everyone everything — but you do need someone who knows you."_

* A veil that first covers the **face** eventually covers the **heart**.
* What veil are you wearing?

_"You’re living for likes, but longing for love."_

* Only Christ can remove the veil.

[2 Corinthians 3:16](https://www.bible.com/bible/111/2co.3.16.niv)

* * *

## Discussion Questions
<p class="lead">How deep do you want to take your group? Choose from these suggestions to lead your discussion.</p>

* Share something silly that was a struggle for you this week that isn’t really a big deal compared to deeper #struggles.
* Share a time when you worked to create a social media moment instead of just engaging in the situation.
* Scroll through the things you’ve posted online. Share the real story that was going on that might not show in the carefully crafted photo or post.
* Hold up fingers for how many close friends you have. How far off is this number from what you think would be God’s best for you?
* Do you see any area of your life where you are starting to fear or avoid unfiltered communication?
* What’s something about you that you’d never reveal to your wider group of “friends” on your social media page?
* What veil are you wearing? What are some situations where you find yourself showing “the me I want you to see”?
* Who are the people who get to see the real you?
* What efforts do you take to pre-plan conversations? How do these filtered communications affect your ability to have authentic friendships in other settings?
* What does Christ need to do in you to help you live a filter-free life?

* * *

## Live It Out
<p class="lead">End with a challenge to take action. Choose a closing question to help each person identify their next steps.</p>

* What can our group do to be open, real, and authentic with each other? What would it take for us to really remove all filters between us?
* What step can you take to challenge yourself to be authentic this week? If all of your ideas are within social media and not in real life, what will you do to challenge yourself to open up in person?
* How can we help each other with our #struggles this week?

{% include video-player.html id='i98j5vdq8g' %}
