---
published: true
layout: talkitover
series-id: stand
title: Talk-It-Over Week 2
---

# Week 2 - Stand Up

What connected with you from this week’s message? Is there something you heard that’s stirring something inside you to take action? Use this guide to discuss what stood out to you and identify what steps you’ll take to grow from what you learned. To help refresh your memory, you’ll find a recap of the message at the bottom of the page.

## Talk It Over

In week two of Stand, Craig showed us the right way to stand up to those who are  wrong because of their sin by prayerfully confronting them. As you work thorough this questions, strive to identify how you might be confronting others in the wrong ways, and what steps you need to take to confront others with the goal of restoration and in cautious way.

* Which of the two confrontational extremes do you find yourself most often taking?
* What obstacles might be standing in your way of taking a more prayerful approach in confronting others?
* What’s one change you need to make that will help you become more prayerful in your confrontations?

## Live It Out

* Who do you need to confront? How will you prayerfully confront them?

If you’re unsure where to start in taking your next steps, here are a few ideas:

* Pray and ask God to help you be more prayerful when you confront others.
* If you’ve identified someone you need to confront, then spend some thinking about how you’ll do it with the goal of restoration and with caution. You might write down what you intend to say and practice it before you confront that person.
* Talk through how you’ll confront this person with a trusted friend, family member, or mentor. Allow them to help guide in what to say when you prayerfully confront. 

## Message Recap

**TWO CONFRONTATIONAL EXTREMES
**
**1. SOME ARE MOSTLY UNWILLING TO CONFRONT.
**
**2. SOME CONFRONT UNLOVINGLY. 
**
_Your Majesty, you are that tree! You have become great and strong; your greatness has grown until it reaches the sky, and your dominion extends to distant parts of the earth. You will be driven away from people and will live with the wild animals; you will eat grass like the ox and be drenched with the dew of heaven. Seven times will pass by for you until you acknowledge that the Most High is sovereign over all kingdoms on earth and gives them to anyone he wishes. The command to leave the stump of the tree with its roots means that your kingdom will be restored to you when you acknowledge that Heaven rules._ Daniel 4:22, 25-26

_‘King Nebuchadnezzar, please accept my advice. Stop sinning and do what is right. Break from your wicked past and be merciful to the poor. Perhaps then you will continue to prosper.’_ Daniel 4:25-27 NLT

**PRAYERFUL CONFRONTATION
**
_Dear brothers and sisters, if another believer is overcome by some sin, you who are godly should gently and humbly help that person back onto the right path. And be careful not to fall into the same temptation yourself._ Galatians 6:1 NLT

**1. GOD, HELP ME CONFRONT WITH THE GOAL OF RESTORATION. 
**
_…gently and humbly help that person back onto the right path._ Galatians 6:1 NLT

**2. GOD, HELP ME CONFRONT WITH CAUTION.
**
_…And be careful not to fall into the same temptation yourself._ Galatians 6:1 NLT

_At the end of that time, I, Nebuchadnezzar, raised my eyes toward heaven, and my sanity was restored. Then I praised the Most High; I honored and glorified him who lives forever._ Daniel 4:34 

All scriptures are NIV unless otherwise noted.
