---
published: true
layout: talkitover
category: talkitover
series-id: struggles
title: Talk It Over Week 4
---

<p class="lead">This week's Talk It Over has a special video to accompany your study. <a href="javascript:void(0);" data-video-player="8o1yb56kno" class="action" onclick="ga('send', 'event', 'TIO', 'Click', 'Video');">Watch the Video <i class="icon icon-arrow"></i></a></p>

## Compassion
<p class="lead">Start by reviewing what stuck out to you from the message.</p>

* We care **40**% less than people did in the 1980s.

How does technology cause us to care less?

1. We're more obsessed with **ourselves**.
2. Overwhelming exposure to suffering **desensitizes** us. 
3. Lack of **personal** interaction makes it easier not to care.

<ul><li>True compassion demands <strong>action</strong>.</li></ul>

splagchnizomai (splangkh-nid'- zom-ahee); to have the bowels yearn, feel deep sympathy, to be moved to **action**.

* To say you care but not **act** is to not **care** at all. 

_"Caring is not liking a post but loving a person!"_

[Mark 1:40-41](https://www.bible.com/bible/111/Mrk.1.40-41.niv) 

[Matthew 14:14](https://www.bible.com/bible/111/Mat.14.14.niv)

[Matthew 20:34](https://www.bible.com/bible/111/Mat.20.34.niv)

1. Compassion **interrupts**.
2. Compassion **costs**.
3. Compassion changes **lives**.

* * *

## Discussion Questions
<p class="lead">How deep do you want to take your group? Choose from these suggestions to lead your discussion.</p>

* What’s the most awkward overshare you’ve seen on social media? Take a few minutes to LOL.
* It’s time #TBH (to be honest). Everyone think of something you feel bad about not feeling bad about. Then, take turns finishing the sentence, “I couldn’t care less about _____.”
* In your own life or in the lives of others, how have you noticed that people don’t care as much?
* If someone followed you around, what evidence might they see that you’re obsessed with yourself? (Bonus for admitting you’d love it if someone watched your every move.)
* When have you experienced compassion that really lined up with the definition of splagchnizomai (but skip over anything about your bowels being moved)?
* Share an example of something you would say you care about that you don’t do anything about. Try to identify what’s keeping you from turning those feelings into action.
* How has serving and caring for others impacted your life?
* Share a time when you showed compassion and it ended up changing you more than the person you were caring for.
* In real life, compassion interrupts our lives and has high costs. How can getting closer to Christ help you overcome those obstacles?
* Pastor Craig said, _“The closer I get to Jesus, the less I care about me, and the more I care about people.”_ How have you found this to be true for you?

* * *

## Live It Out
<p class="lead">End with a challenge to take action. Choose a closing question to help each person identify their next steps.</p>

* What can we do to put action to our compassion this week? How can our group love people better?
* Who is someone you love who could really use some actual care this week? What will you do to reach out to them?
* How and where is God calling you to care? What action will you take this week?

{% include video-player.html id='8o1yb56kno' %}
