---
published: true
layout: talkitover
series-id: stand
title: Talk-It-Over Week 1
---

What connected with you from this week’s message? Is there something you heard that’s stirring something inside you? Use this guide to discuss what stood out to you and identify what steps you’ll take to grow from what you heard. 

## Talk It Over
* What are some of the common ways you’ve seen people blend into the world?
* What do you think is most difficult about standing out for God and not blending in?
* What do you need to overcome that will enable you to stand out for God?

* * *

## Live It Out
* What step will you take this week to take a stand for God?

* * *

## Go to the Source
As you take steps to stand out for God, allow His word to speak to you and transform you. Use these Scriptures related to this week’s message to extend your group discussion or use on your own during the week.

* Daniel 1:1-21: This is the key text from Craig’s message.
* Ephesians 6:10-20: To stand out for God, you need to put on the full armor of God.
* Romans 12:1-2: These verses talk about the importance of not blending into the world.
* 1 John 2:15-17: These verses also talk about the importance of not living for the world, but instead living for God.
* Galatians 5:16-26: This passage talks about walking in step with the Holy Spirit and the dangers of gratifying the desires of the flesh.

* * *

## Message Recap

If you don’t stand for something, you’ll fall for anything. I’d rather be remembered for standing out than forgotten for blending in.

### Key Points:
Three things you need to know if you’re going to make a difference in this world:

1. Sometimes you win by not fighting back.  
   *“If someone slaps you on one cheek, turn to them the other also.” Luke 6:29*
2. You win better together.  
   *“Two are better than one, because they have a good return for their labor: 10 If either of them falls down, one can help the other up. But pity anyone who falls and has no one to help them up.” Ecclesiastes 4:9-10*
3. Remembering the why makes the what possible. “For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve others and to give his life as a ransom for many.” Matthew 20:28 NLT  
  *“For the joy set before [Jesus] he endured the cross…” Hebrews 12:2*
