---
published: true
layout: talkitover
category: talkitover
series-id: because-of-you-2015
title: Talk It Over
---

## Because of You
<p class="lead">Think back through this week’s talk. What stuck out among all the amazing stories?</p> 

Key Scriptures

Acts 17:26 NIV  
_From one man he made all the nations, that they should inhabit the whole earth; and **he marked out their appointed times in history** and the boundaries of their lands._

1 Corinthians 9:22-23 NIV  
_... I have become all things to all people so that **by all possible means** I might save some. I do all this **for the sake of the gospel**, that I may share in its blessings._

John 17:20-21 NIV  
_“My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them **may be one**, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May they also be in us so **that the world may believe** that you have sent me.”_

Ephesians 3:20-21NIV  
_Now to him who is **able to do immeasurably more** than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever! Amen._

* * *

## Discussion Questions
<p class="lead">Start talking. Find a conversation starter for your group.</p> 

* Where is someplace in the world you’d really love to travel to? What would you like to see or do there?
* What is something you had no idea Life.Church was doing with technology?

<p class="lead">Start thinking. Ask questions to get your group thinking.</p> 

* How does it change your thinking to know you have an appointed time in history?
* “We are all about the capital “C” Church. We believe the local church is the hope of the world and we can accomplish infinitely more together than apart.” In what ways is this statement true about you individually and not just about our church as a whole?
* “We will do anything short of sin to reach people who don’t know Christ. To reach people no one is reaching, we’ll have to do things no one is doing.” Is this something you live out? What could you change to make it more true of you?
* Do you think of the values Pastor Bobby and Pastor Craig shared as your own values or just something true of our church as a whole? How can you shift your mindset to be more in line with our value, “We are the church and we exist for the world”?
 
<p class="lead">Start sharing. Choose questions that create openness.</p> 

* What are some things others have done that caused you to
give thanks to God?
* Share an example of a time when someone else’s acts of generosity or unselfishness inspired you to imitate them.

<p class="lead">Start praying. Be bold, and pray specifically.</p> 

* Father God, we’re amazed at all You’re doing in the world through our church. Help us become more engaged in giving and serving to expand Your Kingdom. In Jesus’ name, amen.

* * *

## Live It Out
<p class="lead">Start doing. Commit to a step, and live it out this week.</p>

* How could you help get someone else to engage with Jesus this week through technology?
* Get involved at [www.life.church/digital-missions](http://www.life.church/digital-missions/)

* * *

_Leaders, Craig filmed this video to thank you: [go2.lc/heroes](http://leaders.lifechurch.tv/you-are-the-heroes/)_
