---
published: true
layout: talkitover
category: talkitover
series-id: punchline
title: Talk It Over
---

## Punchline

<p class="lead">Think back through this week's talk. What stuck out among all the laughs?</p> 

Key Scriptures

_"For I know the plans I have for you," declares the LORD, "plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future."_  
Jeremiah 29:11 NIV

_"Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and approve what God's will is—his good, pleasing and perfect will."_  
Romans 12:2 NIV

"That thing from your past? God didn't cause it, but God will use it."
￼
* * *

## Discussion Questions
<p class="lead">Start talking. Find a conversation starter for your group.</p> 

* Dead bodies, wigs flying off, yelling—what past experiences have you had that turned you off from the idea of church?
* Tell your best joke. Come on! Everyone can tell a joke!

<p class="lead">Start thinking. Ask questions to get your group thinking.</p> 

* Tell about the first time you noticed God working in your life.
* Before you knew Jesus for yourself, what impressions did Christians give you of Christ? What misperceptions might people have about Christ because of how you live?
* What did you think about Michael Jr.’s comparison of how a joke works to how life works? What parts ring true to you?

<p class="lead">Start sharing. Choose questions that create openness.</p> 

* In what ways has coming to Christ given your life purpose?
* Do you see God as a Father who loves for His kids to laugh? What has shaped your view of God?
* Did you have an impression of church from your childhood that is different from your view now?
* What setback or handicap was really practice for a way God plans to use you? What have you been practicing that you didn’t even know was practice?
* What are some things in your life that form your unique setup? How do you think God might be planning to use your setup?
* What's the punch line God has for your life? If you know, share what led you to discovering it. If you don't, take some time to pray and ask the One who knows your setups and setbacks.

<p class="lead">Start praying. Be bold, and pray specifically.</p> 

* God, we come to You together asking You to help each one of us find the punch line You have for our lives. Help us be an encouragement to each other as we examine the unique setup You’ve given each one of us. In Jesus’ name, amen.

* * *

## Live It Out
<p class="lead">Start doing. Commit to a step, and live it out this week.</p>

* "I gotta read the pamphlet first!" Start the easy-to-stick-to plan [_Let's Read the Bible Together_](https://www.bible.com/reading-plans/1079-lets-read-the-bible-together-part-eleven) in the Bible App. Start this month's plan as a group and read the Bible in a year together.
* Ask a pastor about _The Chazown Experience_, an event to help you uncover God's purpose for your life. Sign up together!

* * *

_Leaders, Craig filmed this video to thank you: [go2.lc/heroes](http://leaders.lifechurch.tv/you-are-the-heroes/)_
