---
published: true
layout: talkitover
category: talkitover
series-id: bad-advice
title: Talk It Over Week 4
---

<p class="lead">Think back to Craig's message. What sticks out?</p> 

Key Scriptures

_But godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into the world, and we can take nothing out of it. But if we have food and clothing, we will be content with that._ 

1 Timothy 6:6-8 NIV

## How to Be Dissatisfied

### 1. Focus on being ungrateful.
Rejoice always, pray continually, give thanks in all circumstances; for this is God’s will for you in Christ Jesus.  
*1 Thessalonians 5:16-18 NIV*

### 2. Compare what you have to people who have more.
We do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some who commend themselves. When they measure themselves by themselves and compare themselves with themselves, they are not wise.  
*2 Corinthians 10:12 NIV*

### 3. Pursue temporary possessions over eternal treasures.
Then he said to them, "Watch out! Be on your guard against all kinds of greed; life does not consist in an abundance of possessions."  
*Luke 12:15 NIV*

### 4. Develop and attitude of entitlement.
For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.  
*Romans 6:23-24 NIV*

## Discussion Questions
<p class="lead">Start talking. Find a conversation starter for your group.</p> 

*	What would you do if you won the lottery?
*	How much money do you think it would take to make your life better or easier?

<p class="lead">Start thinking. Ask questions to get your group thinking.</p> 

*	Read 1 Timothy 6:6-8. Food and clothing—what do you add to this list to be happy? 
*	Read Luke 12:16-21. What do you think it means to be rich toward God?
* Why do you think it’s so easy to go after temporary stuff instead of eternal treasure?
 
<p class="lead">Start sharing. Choose questions that create openness.</p> 

*	Craig gave this bad advice: “Resent God’s goodness in everyone else’s life, and ignore His goodness in your own.” Can you identify? How?
*	If the way you live could speak, what would it list as the five things you value most? How do you feel about the list?
*	What is the one thing you think you need to be fully happy? Does it offer anything that Jesus can’t?
* Share about a moment when you realized Jesus was enough. What brought you to this moment?

<p class="lead">Start praying. Be bold, and pray specifically.</p> 

_Jesus, You are enough. More than enough. Forgive us for looking beyond You and Your provision to try to increase our happiness somehow. Show us how to lean fully on You and Your Holy Spirit. Amen._

* * *

## Live It Out
<p class="lead">Start doing. Commit to a step and live it out this week.</p>

*	What do you have or are you trying to obtain that you don’t really need for happiness? Simplify by giving some things away this week.
* Read this short _I’m Grateful Bible Plan_ to grow in gratitude. [www.go2.lc/grateful](http://www.go2.lc/grateful)
* If you haven’t yet, read the _Bad Advice Bible Plan_. [www.go2.lc/badadvice](http://www.go2.lc/badadvice)

* * *

_Want the Talk It Over guide emailed to you each week? Make it happen at [go2.lc/emailme](http://info.life.church/talkitover)_
