---
published: true
layout: talkitover
category: talkitover
series-id: bad-advice
title: Talk It Over Week 3
---

<p class="lead">Think back to Craig's message. What sticks out?</p> 

Key Scriptures

_“You shall not commit adultery._ 

Exodus 20:14 NIV

## How to Commit Adultery

### 1. Neglect your marriage.

### 2. Enjoy common interests and form an emotional bond with someone else.

### 3. Make excuses and rationalize your actions.

## Instead, do whatever it takes...

### 1. To radically reduce the risks.
Keep to a path far from her, do not go near the door of her house, ... Proverbs 5:8 NIV
But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart
Matthew 5:28 NIV

### 2. To invest passionately in your marriage.
May your fountain be blessed, and may you rejoice in the wife of your youth. A loving doe, a graceful deer—may her breasts satisfy you always, may you ever be intoxicated with her love. Why, my son, be intoxicated with another man’s wife? ...
Proverbs 5:18-20 NIV

### 3. To visualize the potential destruction
For the lips of the adulterous woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil; but in the end she is bitter as gall, sharp as a double-edged sword. Her feet go down to death; her steps lead straight to the grave. 
Proverbs 5:3-5 NIV

## Discussion Questions
<p class="lead">Start talking. Find a conversation starter for your group.</p> 

*	If you’re married or in a relationship, brag on something your better half did this week.
*	What’s the worst relationship advice you’ve ever gotten?

<p class="lead">Start thinking. Ask questions to get your group thinking.</p> 

*	Why do you think so many marriages fail? 
*	Read Proverbs 5:8. How would you apply this practically today?
* If you plan to be married one day, what can you do now to contribute to a healthy marriage in the future?
 
<p class="lead">Start sharing. Choose questions that create openness.</p> 

*	For married couples, what are some things you occasionally give your best to instead of your spouse?
*	Have you ever heard someone make excuses for behavior that could one day lead to infidelity? How did you handle it?
*	Have you ever experienced or gotten close to infidelity? Is anyone willing to share what they learned?
* List some helpful ways you reduce risks of adultery.
* What are you doing to cultivate your current or future marriage? What’s really working for you?

<p class="lead">Start praying. Be bold, and pray specifically.</p> 

_God, marriage isn’t easy, but it’s so good. Will You show us where we can add strength, protection, and beauty to our marriages? Holy Spirit, we invite Your power and purity into our relationships. Amen._

* * *

## Live It Out
<p class="lead">Start doing. Commit to a step and live it out this week.</p>

*	Pick two ways you will regularly cultivate and two ways you will protect your current, or future marriage.
* Read Craig and Amy’s _From This Day Forward Bible Plan_. [www.go2.lc/forward](http://www.go2.lc/forward)
* If you haven’t yet, read the _Bad Advice Bible Plan_. [www.go2.lc/badadvice](http://www.go2.lc/badadvice)

* * *

_Want the Talk It Over guide emailed to you each week? Make it happen at [go2.lc/emailme](http://info.life.church/talkitover)_
